.\" galileo python command-line utility manual page.
.\"
.\" View this file before installing it with:
.\"   groff -man -Tascii galileo.1
.\" or
.\"   man ./galileo.1
.TH GALILEO "1" "" "" "User Commands"
.SH "NAME"
galileo \- synchronize Fitbit devices with Fitbit web service
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B galileo
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]... [\fIMODE\fR]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The
.B galileo
utility will securely synchronize Fitbit wearable fitness tracker
devices with the Fitbit web service. Once synchronized the data may be
viewed using the Fitbit web service at <\fBhttps://www.fitbit.com\fR>,
or with other Fitbit-compatible apps.
.PP
All Bluetooth-based trackers are supported:
.TP "\w'\(bu'u+1n"
\(bu
Fitbit Flex
.TP
\(bu
Fitbit Force
.TP
\(bu
Fitbit One
.TP
\(bu
Fitbit Zip
.PP
Note that the Fitbit Ultra tracker is not supported as it is not
Bluetooth-based.
.SH "FEATURES"
.B galileo
supports synchronization of multiple trackers with the Fitbit web
service. Any tracker found by
.B galileo
will be synchronizied unless the \fB\-\-include\fR and/or
\fB\-\-exclude\fR options are used to implement restrictions.
.PP
HTTPS is used to securely exchange data with the Fitbit web service.
.PP
.B galileo
can optionally save the data retrieved from the tracker (the
\fIdump\fR), as well as synchronize that data with the Fitbit web
service.
.SH "REQUIREMENTS"
An original Fitbit Bluetooth-LE USB synchronization dongle is
required.
.PP
The Fitbit tracker must already be registered to your Fitbit account
(see the BUGS section).
.SH "MODES"
The following modes of operation are available. The mode is specified
as the final command-line argument (e.g. \fBgalileo sync\fB).
.TP
\fBsync\fR
Perform one synchronization of all found trackers, then exit. This is
the default mode if none is specified.
.TP
\fBdaemon\fR
Periodically perform synchronization of all found trackers.
.B galileo
will continue to periodically perform synchronization until the daemon
is killed. Use the \fB\-\-daemon\-period\fR option to control the
frequency of synchronization.
.TP
\fBversion\fR
Display the
.B galileo
version and exit.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
show command-line usage and exit.
.TP
\fB\-c\fR \fIRCCONFIGNAME\fR, \fB\-\-config\fR \fIRCCONFIGNAME\fR
use an alternative configuration file (the configuration file defaults
to \fB~/.galileorc\fR if not specified).
.SS "Logging options:"
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
display general information on progress during synchronization.
.TP
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-debug\fR
as \fB\-\-verbose\fR, but also shows internal activity useful for
diagnosing problems.
.TP
\fB\-q\fR, \fB\-\-quiet\fR
show no output except for errors and a summary. This is the default
if no other logging options are specified.
.SS "Synchronization control options:"
.TP
\fB\-I\fR \fIID\fR [\fIID\fR ...], \
\fB\-\-include\fR \fIID\fR [\fIID\fR ...]
list of tracker IDs to synchronize (all found trackers are
synchronized by default).
.TP
\fB\-X\fR \fIID\fR [\fIID\fR ...], \
\fB\-\-exclude\fR \fIID\fR [\fIID\fR ...]
list of tracker IDs to avoid synchronizing (no trackers are excluded
by default).
.TP
\fB\-\-force\fR
normally a tracker will not be synchronized with the Fitbit web
service if it reports that it was recently synchronized. This option
will override that behavior.
.TP
\fB\-\-no\-force\fR
if the configuration file includes the \fBforce\-sync\fR option to
always force synchronization, this option will restore the default
behaviour.
.TP
\fB\-\-daemon\-period\fR \fIDAEMON\-PERIOD\fR
set the time to wait between synchronizations when running in
\fBdaemon\fR mode. The time is specified in milliseconds (the time
defaults to 15000ms [15 seconds] if not specified).
.SS "Tracker data saving options:"
.TP
\fB\-\-dump\fR
save a copy of the tracker data. Tracker data is stored under a
tracker-specific subdirectory of a directory that is set using the
\fB\-\-dump\-dir\fR option. This option is enabled by default.
.TP
\fB\-\-no\-dump\fR
disables the saving of tracker data.
.TP
\fB\-\-dump\-dir\fR \fIDUMP\-DIR\fR
the directory used for storing tracker dumps when \fB\-\-dump\fR is
used (the directory defaults to \fB~/.galileo\fR if not specified).
.SS "Data transfer options:"
.TP
\fB\-\-upload\fR
synchronize tracker data with the Fitbit web service. This is the
default.
.TP
\fB\-\-no\-upload\fR
prevent the uploading of tracker data to the Fitbit web service. Data
is not deleted from trackers until it is uploaded and so this will
not result in data loss.
.TP
\fB\-\-https\-only\fR
data sent to the Fitbit web service will be encrypted during transfer
using HTTPS. This is the default.
.TP
\fB\-\-no\-https\-only\fR
data sent to the Fitbit web service will \fInot\fR be encrypted. This
should only be required if problems with HTTPS-related libraries
prevent data transfer without this option.
.SH FILES
.I ~/.galileorc
.RS
The configuration file supplying default settings (the location of
this file can be changed with the \fB\-\-config\fR option). Settings
from this file can be overridden with command-line options. See
.BR galileorc (5)
for further details.
.RE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.TP
<\fBhttp://www.fitbit.com\fR>
The Fitbit web service where synchronized tracker data may be viewed.
.TP
<\fBhttps://bitbucket.org/benallard/galileo\fR>
The \fBgalileo\fR homepage where additional information is available.
.TP
.BR galileorc (5)
The format of the configuration file providing default settings.
.SH "AUTHOR"
Written and maintained by Benoît Allard, with contributions from other
authors.
.SH "BUGS"
.B galileo
doesn't currently support linking (pairing) trackers with the Fitbit
web service account. Before a new tracker can be synchronized it must
first be linked to your Fitbit account using another method such as a
Fitbit mobile or tablet app, or the official Fitbit Windows or
Macintosh desktop clients.
.PP
There are no current facilities to make use of the data stored with
the \fB\-\-dump\fR command.
.PP
Please report additional bugs to
<\fBhttps://bitbucket.org/benallard/galileo/issues\fR>
