.\" galileorc galileo configuration file manual page.
.\"
.\" View this file before installing it with:
.\"   groff -man -Tascii galileorc.5
.\" or
.\"   man ./galileorc.5
.TH GALILEORC "5" "" "" "File Formats Manual"
.SH "NAME"
galileorc \- configuration files for the galieo Fitbit synchronization
utility
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The \fBgalileorc\fR file is used to provide default settings to the
galileo(1) utility. Any settings that would normally be passed as
command-line arguments to galileo can, instead, be present in this
settings file to conveniently provide common settings without having
to repeat potentially many command-line options.
.PP
Settings provided by the \fBgalileorc\fR file can be overridden by
command-line arguments to \fBgalileo\fR - see the command-line options
for galileo(1) for further details.
.SH "FILES"
By defailt, \fBgalileo\fR will load settings from \fB~/.galileorc\fR.
This default file location can be overridden using the
\fB\-\-config\fR option if required.
.SH "SYNTAX"
The settings file is defined in YAML format. Blank lines and comment
lines (which begin with a hash character '\fB#\fR') are ignored when
reading the file.
.PP
Settings are defined using a keyword followed by a colon character.
For single-value settings (the majority), the value follows the colon,
for example:
.PP
.nf
do-upload: true
.fi
.PP
For multi-value settings (such as the tracker ID inclusion and
exclusion lists), the values appear on subsequent lines indented by
two characters and prefixed with a dash, for example.
.PP
.nf
include:
  - '123456789ABC'
  - '9876543210AB'
.fi
.SH "SETTINGS"
The following settings can be added to the \fBgalileorc\fR settings
file - not all options have to be specified; any that are not
mentioned will leave the defaults in effect. See galileo(1) for
details of the defaults.
.TP
mode
defines the operating mode of \fBgalileo\fR. Can be \fBsync\fR (to
synchronize once and exit), or \fBdaemon\fR to synchronize
continuously, pausing between synchronizations according to
\fBdaemon-period\fR.
.TP
logging
controls the amount of progress output. Can be \fBverbose\fR to
display progress during synchronization, or \fBdebug\fR for more
detailed information useful for diagnosing problems.
.TP
include
the list of tracker IDs to synchronize. If this is specified then any
tracker \fInot\fR specified here will be ignored.
.TP
exclude
the list of tracker IDs to avoid synchronizing.
.TP
force-sync
setting this to \fBtrue\fR causes trackers to be synchronized even if
they report that they have been recently synchronized.
.TP
daemon-period
this defines, in milliseconds, the time to wait between
synchronizations when galileo is run in \fBdaemon\fR mode.
.TP
keep-dumps
setting this to \fBtrue\fR causes galileo to save the data retrieved
from trackers to the directory specified in \fBdump-dir\fR.
.TP
dump-dir
the directory used for saving tracker data if the \fBkeep-dumps\fR
option is set.
.TP
do-upload
setting this to \fBfalse\fR will prevent galileo from sending tracker
data to the Fitbit web service.
.TP
https-only
setting this to \fBfalse\fR will cause galileo to use unencrypted HTTP
for sending tracker data to the Fitbit web service.
.SH "EXAMPLE"
The following is an example \fBgalileorc\fR configuration file:
.PP
.nf
daemon-period: 60000
keep-dumps: false
do-upload: true
dump-dir: ~/.galileo-tracker-data
logging: verbose
force-sync: false
https-only: false
include:
  - '123456789ABC'
  - '9876543210AB'
exclude:
  - 'AABBCCDDEEFF'
  - '881144BB1234'
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.TP
<\fBhttps://bitbucket.org/benallard/galileo\fR>
The \fBgalileo\fR homepage where additional information is available.
.TP
.BR galileo (1)
The \fBgalileo\fR utility which uses these configuration files for
default settings.
.TP
<\fBhttp://www.yaml.org\fR>
The official YAML homepage, with more background information on the
YAML file format.
.SH "AUTHOR"
Written and maintained by Benoît Allard, with contributions from other
authors.
.SH "BUGS"
Tracker IDs which consist of only numbers must be surrounded with
single quotes (as in the \fIEXAMPLE\fR section above). It's probably a
good idea to always quote tracker IDs to avoid possible confusion.
.PP
Please report additional bugs to
<\fBhttps://bitbucket.org/benallard/galileo/issues\fR>
